The first component or element I only cruise ships with into which I want to dive a little bit deeper
are buttons soiled and the appropriate part here and the components documentation.
And you can do that too.
But no worries we're not going to read the documentation together.
That would be pretty boring and not really the point of a video.
I will create a new project and play around with some of those configurations and how to use buttons
in there.
I'm back into a brand new blank project created with iconic start project name blank dash dash.
We too.
And I want to start with buttons by having a closer look at Buttons.
So let's add a button to our content here in the home component's template.
And I can say a normal button as a caption or whatever you like.
And I also want to add a click listener on Clearlake.
Very very simple.
Let's copy this and add it to our home that the fall the of file.
And here I simply want to console log clicked.
Very very simple.
Now we saved doesn't have a look at our running application.
You will see that it won't look very amazing.
Diesel's the button.
And if you click on it we can see that it gets clicked in the console but we don't get any visual feedback.
Anyways it looks very very ugly.
So it is not how we use buttons and we learned how to style them more pretty.
If we go to the template again.
And now we add a simple directive to the Spartan iron button would be the directive we need.
And once we had this we turned this normal button.
Keep in mind it's the normal HVM all button element here into an eye two button which means it has this
nice restyling we get the visual feedback and so on.
So now we have a pretty button.
Another important takeaway is that we can of course also add color attribute as we can add it to pretty
much all ionic two elements.
And for example we can set this to secondary to gift us button the secondary color instead of the default
primary color.
So now we get a green button.
And of course you can use all the colors you set up in the variables folder here and the color map.
So these are different ways of configuring the button but we can do more with it.
Let's copy this button and edit year and on name this there's another button and what I want to do here
is I'll get rid of the color but instead I want to show you different ways of styling this button you
could say for example right now the first part use the default style but we can also use the outline
style.
Now if we add outline to our button this directive here you will see.
Now we only see the outline.
We don't see the background except for when clicking on it.
So we get this visual feedback.
And this might be another style you want to have in your application.
There is yet another style though.
Declarator style by adding clear instead of outline what I'll do is I'll get rid of the complete border
and the background.
And now we only get this links like view.
You might notice from Iowa s as a side note if you change to Android you still have idea the style but
you get a bit of background feedback when clicking on it.
So these are just different styles 40 different platforms.
I own it will automatically add.
So these are different ways of styling the button and number style we have is round.
Now you might already be able to guess what round will do right.
It gives you this rounded button here with rounded corners.
So all of very nice style.
So these are different styles you may use.
You can also change the way but this should get positioned.
For example you can add block number block will do is it will turn those buttons from the inline element
to block element which means it gets added to the flow of elements in the H DML document and Dom and
it will be treated as a normal block element like a death for example.
Hence taking all the available with no longer being placed in line with our inline elements.
This is why it is button chumped.
The second line and now takes up the full width.
Now sometimes you also want to have the button stretch over the full width.
Now the padding here will of course always be respected because that shows how the well how your page
is style.
Now if you remove the padding here and let's all the remove that rounded looks and says will look a
bit strange you will see that now the button stretched over the full width.
However it does still have these rounded corners here which makes it look a bit strange.
Sometimes you want that look where it really takes the full width and where you instead add padding
or margin to individual items instead of the whole content.
As we did before but still doesn't look great with the rounded corners for cases like these.
You can add full instead of block.
So this will do the same as block but also get rid of the border.
Hence you now don't have any rounded corners.
Now it really takes up the full width and it looks more like a natural stop in your element and fall
apart simply stretching from left to right without any edges.
So it is an average style you might be interested in using.
Now I will add padding again.
And change fall back to block here.
So there we are back to you look where we simply have a blog item stretching up for or default with
respecting the padding of the content of course.
And I want to go into sizes of buttons now.
I already explained that you can add small for example.
Well and as you might be able to guess small simply makes us a small button if you don't add anything
you have to medium size button and you can also add large groups like this and this will just make sure
that now you have D.
Well very very big button here.
That's all nice.
More important is however or very interesting too I should say is however what you can do inside of
that button.
So here we we just have a number of buttons right now having a text as of course straightforwards scenario
something you will use a lot but you can add more than text inside there.
For example you can add an icon so I can inside of the button.
If you do this let's give it the home I can use.
However it should be the attribute of the icon of course.
Now if we save this you will see the home where symbol inside of that button.
It's ok.
However it doesn't look great.
You can improve this by adding a number attribute to the button.
I can only attribute that which will inform my onic that this button only holds I can.
Now you can see the icon is a bit bigger and therefore it looks nicer and less strange.
Of course you might also consider not making this a block button so that it isn't as broad or hest is
full of with which might also make more sense when using Eichen.
Now what if you want to combine Iken and text.
Though let's add some text here like home which makes sense if we have a look at the I can if we do
it like this.
That looks all right but you can also configure where it does.
I can show said.
So let's remove.
I can only to begin with because well it isn't the only I can write.
We do have I can add text if removed.
It looks worse because now the text sits directly next to the Iken so it might not look like an improvement.
But this is because we're using it wrong.
If you are mixing icons and text you should not use no configuration.
Instead we should define a word.
I can actually yes.
Is it on the left on the right.
You can say I can lead for example to and for my on it to that you want to replace the I can on the
left of the text.
And now you see it nicely centers it word easily.
It has this nice spacing.
It looks very good and of course the same is true if you set this to.
I can write and therefore Oreilles of course move the position of the Iken down there.
If you do this now it looks all right.
In this scenario too.
So these are different ways of configuring buttons and there are of course even more.
Again I really want to guide you to have a look at the documentation here to learn more about user's
usage of buttons and how to combine it with other components.
And again we will of course use more buttons for this course too.
I found it important to give you this introduction though to inform you about the different ways of
styling a button since buttons are such an important element in any application.